(upbeat music)
All right now we're going
to get into reduce().
Let's just go ahead and console.clear.
Everything from hereon out or you can create a separate file
if you wanna keep these separate.
So we talked about map() where you take in items
and return a transformed item.
We talked about filter(), where you take in items
and return a subset of those items.
And reduce() is probably one of the trickier array methods
to understand because it does so much
and there are a handful of different use cases for it.
So, what does it do?
It takes in an array of data, just like map(), filter(),
and it will return to you a result or a single value.
What, what does that mean?
Okay so let's take a number for example.
So let's take one of the arrays that we have at the top here
with the orderTotals right?
How would I add all of these up?
You might think I go, okay orderTotals,
okay I've got this array here.
Maybe I could like let total is equal to zero
and then like orderTotals.forEach,
total and then maybe like, maybe for each one
say total equals total plus,
oh no that's the same variable name
so we'll call it a singleTotal,
plus singleTotal
and then on the next line we'll console.log total.
Does that work?
Let's see.
Open it up.
Open in a browser.
And yeah, there we go, that actually worked.
Okay so is that the best way to add up a bunch of things?
Well this is a little bit messy
because we have a callback method here
but that callback method here relies
on an external variable being made.
So we sorta have, we sort of have reached outside of it.
Often people will call that a side effect where you update
a variable that exists outside of the function.
So that's not the best way to go about it,
you may think like, okay let me just figure out
some sort of other way to loop over it.
Now reduce() what it'll do is it will allow us
to loop over every single item in that array
and in this case sorta keep a running total
of those numbers.
Now I am going to visualize this, there's tons of people
have made these really awesome little visualizations.
I just wanna go over them with you.
So I just Google imaged map filter reduce here.
Map() will take an array of cow, potato, chicken and corn
and if you map it through a cook function,
this is not JavaScript but these exist in every language
so the ideas are exactly the same.
So if you take in raw materials,
you kick out the cooked materials via the cook function.
Filter() will return to you a subset of the original array
of what is vegetarian and reduce() will take in
an array of food and then return to you
something that is compiled into a smaller version of it.
It's been reduced into it and if you think about making
a reduction or making a soup when you're cooking.
What you do is you add a whole bunch of stuff to it
and then you let it simmer and sort of become one
but also it's reduced into something that is usually smaller
than the original value that came in here.
Let's take a look at another example that we have here.
This would be an example of map() where you take an apple,
you cut it up, you take an orange, you cut it up.
So that's what we're going to do with reduce() here.
I'm gonna go through a bunch of different
kind of use cases for it so we'll get rid of this here.
So we'll make a new variable called allOrders
and then we'll take our orderTotals
and we'll run a reduce() against them.
Then we need a callback function
that will run once for every single item in it.
So I'll make a function here called tallyNumbers
and that will give us two things.
Let's go look at MDN reduce().
See what the arguments are.
So they call it the accumulator and the currentValue.
So the accumulator is going to be the thing
that has been handed to you from the last instance
of the loop and the currentValue is going to be
the current thing in it.
So what we can do here is let's just use tally
as a variable and currentTotal.
Now in here we're going to console.log
and let's say the current
tally is
tally
and then the current total is
currentTotal.
And then we'll console.log,
let's just concole.log like one of these
just so we know we can clearly see
what the iteration of each one is.
Now we take this tally numbers and pass it here
and we open that up in our browser.
We're gonna see some stuff that might not make
a whole lot of sense.
So let's go through this together.
So the current tally is 342 and the current total is
1,002.
And in the next one is the current tally is undefined
and the current total is 523, undefined 34.
Let's look at those numbers in relation
to our totals array that we have here.
So 342 and 1,002,
342 1,002, okay so
those are the first two numbers.
That's not really a total.
And then the current tally is undefined and 523,
okay so that's the next number, 34 and undefined,
that's the next number there, 634,
that's the next number there.
Okay so it's clearly looping over it
except for the first time for some reason
it gives us the first two values.
And that is because reduce() will take a second argument
which is, what do you want to start the accumulator at?
And in our case the accumulator is the tally so,
what do you wanna start counting at?
We'll start that at zero because we're gonna count a number.
Now if I refresh, now we see the current tally is zero,
it starts with this and then it grabs the first item
in the array, 342 then we get 1,002,
so we got that loop sort of working
but now we have this problem where everything
is undefined after the first loop and that's because
the accumulator or in our case we call it the tally
that is passed from the previous iteration of the loop.
So if I return, Wes is cool, from each of these iterations
of the loop, the accumulator is going to be equal
to that on the next iteration.
So the first time, it's zero because we started
with an accumulator of zero and then the next instance
is Wes is cool, Wes is cool right
because whatever you return from this function
is going to be what the accumulator is equal to.
So what we really wanna do is return the current tally,
maybe we'll put a comma here return
the current tally
plus
the amount of
this order.
So return the tally plus the currentTotal.
Now let's watch how it works.
Now we loop over it, we start with zero
because the accumulator starts at zero.
I should say if you don't provide
an initial accumulator value it will take
the first loop iteration will take the first two numbers,
which in our case would work but I always like to pass
a default value just so I know what we're starting with
and you can see what type you're starting with.
So start with zero then the currentTotal is 342
then the next iteration,
because we've returned 342 from here
we're going to start with that as the tally variable
in the next iteration and then add
whatever the next value is.
And then the current tally is that, the current total is 523
you see how it keeps on growing and keeps on growing.
So a reduce() will loop over items in an array
and every single time that you loop over an item
in an array, you have the option to return a value
and you can use that to accumulate values
or distill them down into one value.
So little bit confusing, we'll do a bunch more examples
but this our sort of our first example
that we've got going on here.
Now if we want to total those numbers
we already have them in this variable called allOrders
and we can console.log allOrders and we can see
that the total is 7,255 of all of those numbers.
Let's take a look at this inventory variable
that I have here for you,
it's got a type and a price on each one.
So it's an array of objects,
each object has a type and a price on it.
I'm curious about a couple of things.
First of all, how many of each of these instances are there,
how many shirts, how many pants and how many socks are there
and also, what is the total value
of all of the inventory that we have?
Well the total value you could probably
figure that out from the last one
but this next one, which is counting instances
of something happens all the time in JavaScript.
Let me show you how to do that right now.
So we'll say const allInventory.
All right let's, let's say const inventoryCounts
is equal to and we'll take our inventory
and we'll reduce() it and I'm going to make
a function called an inventoryReducer.
We'll pass that in here, inventoryReducer.
And then we also know, wanna know
what should we start with right?
In our case we wanna return an object
that has something like shirts three, pants two, socks 523
and in order for us to get that, we need to pass an object.
So to start with that, we could pass an object right here
and we could put shirts zero, pants zero
and socks zero.
And what that would do
is it would start everything off at zero.
However, more often than not, you are not aware
of all of the different types that will be coming in.
So there's no way for you to go ahead and make
a huge list of everything ahead of time
or you might be aware of it
but it might be 50 different things
and that doesn't make sense to do that.
So what we'll do here, is we'll simply just start off
with an empty object and add these keys
and set them to one as they appear.
Otherwise if they already exist we will increment it by one.
So what are we gonna start with as our accumulator?
Just an empty object, set of curly brackets.
Now our reducer takes two things, it takes our accumulator
and now our reducer function gives us two things.
It gives our accumulator and it gives us our item.
Let's call that totals and item.
Now let's go inside of here and console.log looping over
and I'll say item.type, switch these to back-ticks
and you can see it looping over shirt, pants, socks, shirt,
pants, socks, pants.
Okay good.
So what do we need to do inside of this reducer,
well we need to increment the type by one
and then return the accumulator or return the totals
so the next loop can use it.
So in our case what we could do here is we could say,
totals.shirt is equal to totals.shirt plus one.
Let's run that, actually and we also need to
return the totals here.
Let's run and see if that works.
Oh we gotta first console.log,
the inventoryCounts.
You can see what we're working with here,
we have shirt is equal to,
NaN.
Okay, why is that NaN?
And that's because if you're trying to add one
to something that doesn't exist
it will give you not a number.
So what we need to do is we need to check
if the shirt exists on our totals yet and if it does
we will increment it by one but if it doesn't
we will set it to zero.
So what we can do is we can say totals.shirt
is equal to totals.shirt plus one or one.
Just by adding that or one, is that gonna fix our problem?
Let's refresh.
Seven shirts.
So why did that work?
Well this is taking an advantage of conditionals as well.
Let's write that out as an if statement.
We would have to if totals.shirt
then if they already exists
then we will just say totals.shirt
is equal to totals.shirt plus one or we could just say
totals.shirt plus plus, that will work as well.
I'll command that one out just so we can see it
and then we would have an else totals.short is equal to one.
Because if it doesn't exist in the accumulator just yet,
we need to add the property of shirt first
before we set it to one and that will work
exactly the same way.
In this case what it will do is it will say
totals.shirt plus one so if that turns out to be NaN
then that is falsy and it will fall back to one.
So I really like that, I guess it's a little harder to read
which in a lot of cases,
especially if you're a new programmer is not ideal
but it is nice to do it in a one liner
so we can get rid of this, we could also do this
totals.shirt question mark,
totals.shirt plus one,
else totals.shirt is equal to one, right?
So in this case we have a little shorthand it's same as,
there's so many ways to do it.
The idea here is that we're checking
if the shirt property exists before we add one to it
and if it doesn't exist we will say
this is the first time I've seen it we will set it to one.
Now why am I hard-coding shirt here.
I shouldn't be doing that because there's lots of
different types, there's shirts there's pants
and there's socks.
So what we can do is we can take this and change it
to a variable lookup
item.type
and what this will do
is to say totals.shirt is equal to totals.shirt plus one
or one and then because I use square brackets here
to look up the property on the object,
then it will work for pants and socks as well.
And I give that a save.
Refresh.
Now see that our accumulator has two shirts,
three pants and two socks.
Okay good.
Now pretty often a reduce() can be done
in an arrow function, a really quick one.
In our case, we just wanna add up the inventory
price on each of them.
So go down here, we'll say const totalInventory.
We'll say const totalInventoryPrice
is equal to inventory.reduce
.reduce and that takes two things,
the accumulator and the starting value
so in our case we'll take, called the accumulator
and the item, return the accumulator plus the item.price
and then we can also start of with a zero
which is what we are starting with and then console.log
the totalInventoryPrice, 1,411,7.
So What are we doing there?
We start with zero, we loop over every single item
and return the previous amount
which is the accumulator plus the price of this one.
In our case.